Chapter 1 — The Boy Who Lived

Mr. and Mrs. Dursley, of number four, Privet Drive, were proud to say that they were perfectly normal, thank you very much. They were the last people you'd expect to be involved in anything strange or mysterious, because they just didn't hold with such nonsense.

Mr. Dursley was the director of a firm called Grunnings, which made drills. He was a big, beefy man with hardly any neck, although he did have a very large mustache. Mrs. Dursley was thin and blonde and had nearly twice the usual amount of neck, which came in very useful as she spent so much of her time craning over garden fences, spying on the neighbors.

The Dursleys had a small son called Dudley and in their opinion there was no finer boy anywhere. The Dursleys had everything they wanted, but they also had a secret, and their greatest fear was that somebody would discover it.

They didn't think they could bear it if anyone found out about the Potters. Mrs. Potter was Mrs. Dursley's sister, but they hadn't met for several years; in fact, Mrs. Dursley pretended she didn't have a sister, because her sister and her good-for-nothing husband were as unDursleyish as it was possible to be.

When Mr. and Mrs. Dursley woke up on the dull, gray Tuesday our story starts, there was nothing in the cloudless sky to suggest that strange and mysterious things would soon be happening all over the country. Mr. Dursley hummed as he picked out his most boring tie for work, and Mrs. Dursley gossiped away happily as she wrestled a screaming Dudley into his high chair.

None of them noticed a large, tawny owl flutter past the window. At half past eight, Mr. Dursley picked up his briefcase, pecked Mrs. Dursley on the cheek, and tried to kiss Dudley goodbye but missed, because Dudley was now having a tantrum and throwing his cereal at the walls.

Harry looked around. He didn't know where he was. There were hundreds of books piled up to the ceiling. Some of them looked very old. Dust motes danced in the thin beam of light that came through a high window.

He tried to remember how he had got there, but his mind felt fuzzy, as though someone had wrapped it in thick wool. A door creaked somewhere in the distance. Footsteps echoed on stone floors.

Harry stood up slowly. His legs felt stiff. The room smelled of old paper and leather bindings. He walked toward the nearest shelf and pulled out a book at random. The cover was dark green with gold lettering that he couldn't quite read.

Suddenly he heard a voice behind him. "You're late," it said. Harry spun around, heart pounding. An old man with half-moon spectacles was watching him from the doorway. "We've been expecting you for quite some time, Mr. Potter."
